In this lecture, we take a look at Java syntax.
Every line of code that runs in Java must be inside a class.
A class.
It always starts with an uppercase first letter.
Java is K sensitive and the name of the job of file must match the class name.
Java Phi always uses the dot java extension in the file name.
So the main method is essential and will be found in every Java program.
Any code inside the main method will be executed.
It is the starting point of where our code will run whenever a Java program is submitted to the job
of virtual machine.
It looks for the main method and invokes it.
So let's try this out.
So the first thing I'm going to do is open up the clips.
And as we're in a new section, I'm going to right click the source folder, go to new and click package,
and I'm going to call this package section zero seven and then click Finish.
So under that new section I'm that's right click new and class to create a new class and I'm going to
call this L for lecture zero free because this is the third lecture under section seven underscore syntax.
So.
And this time I am not going to select public static void and I'm going to click Finish.
So that class should open.
So if I try and run this class, let's see what happens.
So you see that I have no option to run it.
And the reason for that is because I do not have an entry point in this class.
An entry point will be declared by using public static void main and then inside brackets.
I'll be right in string.
Open and close in square brackets and then args like so.
And at the end of that line, I'm going to have an open and close in braces like so.
So this is now the entry points of where the code will execute.
So if I save this class now.
And right click and run.
You'll see that.
Now I've got the option of Java application.
So inside this inside this static void main.
I'm going to simply use system dots out the print end and I'm going to type out.
Hello?
Well, the semicolon.
So if I say this class and I try to monetize.
You'll see in the console is outputs it hello world.
So to briefly explain public static void, main public means that the method is visible and can be called
from other objects of other types.
Static means that the method is associated with the class, not a specific instance, i.e. object of
that class.
This means that you can call a static method without creating an object of the class.
Void means that the method has no return value.
If the method returned int for example, you would write int instead of void and main is the main method
name.
So this is the name of the method that Java looks for as the initiation or start in point three executes
a Java program.
So string args is a parameter and this is often to provide arguments as a string when executes in a
Java program via command line.
So that's the key points of why we use public static void main and I hope that it's made it more clearer
as to why we use it.
So let's move on to the next subject.